Ganymede Developer Release 6a
December 4, 1998
README
---------------------------------------------

Greetings.  This package comprises a developer's pre-release of the
Java-based directory management software we at the Computer Science
Division of ARL:UT have been developing for the past 3 years.  It is
intended to allow interested parties to view the work we have done to
date, to experiment with using the system, and possibly to try their
hand at doing customization.

This includes just about all the components necessary to have a
working NIS/DNS management system in the fashion of GASH.  Bear in
mind that as noted in the COPYRIGHT file, neither ARL:UT nor the
University Of Texas at Austin is obligated to provide support for this
code, nor are there any guarantees as to performance or behavior.

This release includes:

  The Ganymede server, an extendable database and application server
  that supports custom plug-ins for object types held in the database
  and for tasks that can be run in the server to do directory
  propagation to NIS, DNS, and the like.

  A full-featured Ganymede client, providing a convenient
  Explorer-like interface to all operations supported by the server.

  A full-featured Administration Console, which can be used to monitor
  the server's operations, and to modify the design of the database
  held in the server.

  Sample database configurations, including both the database
  definition file and custom plug-in classes to match.

  Comprehensive documentation on all classes and methods comprising
  the server and the primary client.

  Source code for all custom classes, and for an example password
  client that can talk directly to the Ganymede server.

  Source code for the core module of any Ganymede client.

  Templates for running the admin console and primary client off of
  a Java-enabled web browser.

  A Java program to load data from NIS maps and/or GASH files into
  the Ganymede server.

  Build scripts that can take NIS and DNS information from the
  Ganymede server and propagate the information into NIS maps or
  DNS tables when the GASH schema is used.

This release does not include:

  Source code for the Ganymede server, the Admin console, or the
  primary client.  We have not yet made a determination as to
  what the official release status of the system will be, and as
  such we are not releasing the source code at this time.  We are
  including all source code that should be necessary to use and
  customize the system.

Things you will need:

  A JDK 1.1.5 or better compliant JVM to run the server, client, and
  admin console.  We recommend using Sun's JDK 1.1.7 on UNIX, and
  JDK 1.2 on Windows.  JDK 1.2 will work on UNIX as well, but the
  versions of JDK 1.2 on UNIX thus far only seem to support 8 and
  24 bit color displays.

  Swing 1.1 beta 3 (or later) from Sun. You can download this
  from http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/index.html.  Earlier versions
  of Swing will NOT work, as Ganymede is now built to use the javax
  version of the Swing libraries.  Probably the best thing to do
  is to install the latest JDK 1.2 package, which includes an
  up-to-date Swing.  Most of the client testing on dev5c has been
  performed with the 1.2 Release Candidate 1 JRE.

  Perl 5 to run the install scripts.

  Note that the HTML for the Ganymede client and admin pages have not
  yet been updated to prompt the user to go to a 1.2 specific plug-in
  page. Users without any version of the Java plugin installed may or
  may not be directed to the right page for downloading.

  The place to go to see about Sun's java plug-in is
  http://java.sun.com/products/plugin/.
  
--

As mentioned above, ARL:UT has not made a final determination of the
ultimate disposition of this system.  Please read and observe the
COPYRIGHT notice, which grants you permission to use, modify, and copy
this software for internal use only.  Please do not redistribute this
code, nor distribute modifications to this code.

We are intensely interested in any feedback from you folks, and we are
committed to making this software the best we can make it.  Please
send comments to the mailing list at ganymede@arlut.utexas.edu.

Thanks,

  Jonathan Abbey - Ganymede Guy
  jonabbey@arlut.utexas.edu
