Ganymede schemas README

$Revision: 1.1 $
$Date: 1999/01/19 21:58:38 $

Jonathan Abbey, jonabbey@arlut.utexas.edu
Applied Research Laboratories, The University of Texas at Austin

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This directory contains a bunch of schema kits, some more fully
developed than others.  Each schema kit includes two main directories,
loader/ and custom_src/.

The loader directory contains code to initialize a ganymede database
from existing text files, such as /etc/passwd, /etc/group, and so on.

loader also contains a ganymede database template file called
ganymede.schema, which defines the object and field types used by the
schema kit.

The custom_src directory contains .java and .class files for custom
logic that is loaded into the server to manage objects of a given
type.  This binding of classes to object types is accomplished in the
ganymede.schema file, which can record a class name for each type of
object defined.  The custom_src directory holds the source code for
those classes, as well as for auxiliary classes that are used by the
bound classes.  These auxiliary classes can include wizards and the
like.

The custom_src directory includes 2 scripts.  build is used to
compile the source code for the schema kit into the classes directory
contained in the schema kit directory.  The buildCustomJar script is
used to produce a custom.jar file.  This class archive is actually
used by the top-level install scripts to integrate the schema's
classes with the server at run-time.  A schema kit must have a
compiled custom.jar file to be used with the server.

The schema kits currently included with this distribution include
the following:

--

bsd

	This schema kit includes code to load passwd and group data
from BSD 4.4 based systems, and to manage users and groups in the
Ganymede server.  It supports the BSD shadow password schema, and
is intended for demonstration purposes.

--

linux

	This schema kit is very similar to the bsd kit, in as much
as it only includes code to manage users and groups.  The loader
code is written to process Linux passwd and group files.

--

nisonly

	This schema kit is again similar to the bsd and linux kits,
but it is designed to manage passwd and group maps formatted according
to Solaris conventions.  A better title for this schema kit might be
'Solaris users and groups only'.

--

gasharl

	This schema kit is the most highly developed at present.  It
is intended to serve as a replacement for GASH as it is used at ARL,
and includes comprehensive support for managing a single NIS domain
and a single DNS domain.  The loader code is designed to read data
from pre-existing GASH files.  ARL-specific logic is embodied in this
schema kit.

--

gash

	This schema kit is an older and somewhat simpler version of
the gasharl schema kit.  It has not been actively maintained for
awhile, and doesn't support some ARL-specific logic, such as user
categories and mandatory expiration dates for certain kinds of user
accounts.
	

--

ganymede.old

	This schema kit is not currently functional.  It was developed
to extend the GASHARL kit logic to a more flexible and abstract
design, with support for separating personal identity from user
accounts, and for providing more flexible DNS support.  This schema
kit does not currently build cleanly, but we will eventually revisit
the design of this schema kit and build on it for integration in the
laboratory.
	

------------------------------------------------------------------------------